Version 5.00, March 1, 2008

- Andy Ye's modification to include support for the uni-directional and 
  single-drive routing architectures.

- Andy Ye's modification to include support for single-tile based
  architectures.

- Mark Wei Fang's modifications for mux balancing

- Jason Luu and Ted Campbell's XML architecture format

- Jason Luu and Ted Campbell's heterogeneous structures


Version 4.30, March 25, 2000

- Sandy Marquardt's timing-driven placement enhancements are in this
  version.  Previous versions of VPR had only routability-driven placement.

  I cleaned up various minor things:  removed an unused #define NEVER from 
  main.c, set the date in the title bar, and fixed a couple of mistakes in
  the command line processor's checking for invalid combinations of 
  options.  I regression tested this code fairly thoroughly against the
  last release.

  This version was released on the web.


Version 4.22, Jan. 26, 1999

- Changes "pr.h" to "vpr_types.h" and "ext.h" to "globals.h".
  The old names were around just for historical reasons; the new filenames
  are more clear.

- Changed the input netlist format slightly so that subblock output pins
  can be hooked directly to unused (open) CLB output pins.  When the netlist
  specifies this, it means that a CLB OPIN of that class must be used by
  that subblock, since the subblock is directly connected to an OPIN.  This
  correctly models Altera LABs, for example.  The router has been altered so
  that it ensures any "locally used CLB OPINs" specified by the netlist are
  properly reserved (i.e. are not used by other connections).

  This change lets me correctly model both types of CLB output pin logical
  equivalence.  One equivalence type corresponds to there being muxes between 
  a set of subblocks in a logic block and a set of CLB output pins.  In this
  case, if some of the subblock outputs don't have to go outside the CLB,
  the other subblocks can use more than one CLB OPIN if it helps routability
  (for routing a high-fanout net for example).  There is another type of 
  logically equivalent outputs, however.  If the subblock outputs are hooked
  directly to the CLB outputs, but a set of subblocks are all identical and
  muxes let you make any connection you want to their inputs, then all
  the CLB OPINs connected to these subblocks are logically equivalent.  In this
  case, however, a subblock whose output is only used locally (never goes 
  outside the CLB) still consumes the OPIN connected to it, so other 
  subblocks can not use this OPIN.  This is the case in Altera LABS, for
  example.  The changes I've made let the netlist specify either type of 
  logical equivalence (or even a mix of both types).

- Made the delay of a routing switch 1 second when doing a global routing
  (old value was 0).  A routing resource must have a delay > 0 for the 
  timing-driven router to work properly.


Version 4.21, Nov. 19, 1998

- Freed the button array in close_graphics (graphics.c) -- prevents a small
  memory leak that would otherwise occur if VPR started and shut down the
  graphics window several times.  Noticed by Paul Leventis.

- Changed place_cost_type from int to an enumerated type (just for
  cleanliness).

- Changed read_arch.c so purify doesn't complain about me printing
  out unset values in print_arch (the values were uninitialized only
  when they weren't relevant for the architecture used, so this is 
  just a cosmetic cleanup).


Version 4.20, Sept. 10, 1998

- Simplified equation used to count transistors in pass transistor muxes --
  Sandy noticed that the "approximate" equation I listed was actually exact,
  and simpler than the summation used in VPR.

- Changed all "class" variables to iclass so the code compiles with a C++ 
  compiler.  Paul Leventis wanted this.

- Changed draw.c to correctly draw architectures in which connected x-directed 
  (or y-directed) wire segments can overlap some in a channel.  Needed by 
  Steve Trimberger for some of the architectures he's looking at.


Version 4.19, July 7, 1998

- Put an fabs around one of the tests for perturbing an input switch
  pattern (in rr_graph.c).  The lack of an fabs meant that I was
  perturbing the switch patterns half the time when I didn't need to.
  That could have hurt routability a little bit, although probably not 
  a whole lot.

- Made a CLB output pin driving a global net only a warning when the 
  CLB pin isn't global.  This allows locally generated clocks to be
  generated by CLBs, and put on global resources.  Paul Leventis wanted
  this so he could run one of his new circuits (des) without changing the
  architecture file around.


Version 4.18, June 1, 1998

- Changed the rr_graph generator so that it perturbs the input pin switch 
  pattern whenever the Fc_input is a perfect multiple of Fc_output (so that
  the output and input switch patterns are prevented from lining up perfectly).

- Added -timing_analysis_only_with_net_delay <float> parameter.  This let's
  you just use VPR's timing analyzer from the command line, with the delay
  of each net set to a constant and other delays taken from the architecture
  file.  Sandy and Catherine Wong both wanted this.


Version 4.17, April 30, 1998

- Fixed a minor problem in the rr_graph generator -- the perturbed IPIN 
  connection block routine could create two switches from the last track 
  in a channel to one IPIN under certain (weird) conditions (basically very
  low track counts).  Fixed it by changing a min to a mod.

- Changed the information printed out about the critical path slightly -- now
  counts of normal nets and of global nets (i.e. the clock) on the critical
  path are computed and printed out separately.

- Cleaned up the code some by making chan_width_io, chan_x_dist and chan_y_dist
  part of the chan_width_dist structure and passing that structure around to
  the places that need it, rather than having them be global variables.
  These variables weren't used widely enough to justify their being global.

- Cleaned up the code a bit by moving a few functions that didn't really
  belong in place.c into place_and_route.c.  This file now contains the 
  overall control routines that start the placer and router, etc.  Place.c
  now just has the placer itself in it.


Version 4.16, April 20, 1998

- Fixed bug where architectures with both pass transistors and buffered
  segments, and paths from buffered to unbuffered segments and back again,
  could go into an infinite loop in the router.  Problem:  the cost is not
  monotonic in my directed-timing driven router under certain cases.  The 
  cost of an unbuffered node can be less after you go from it to a buffered
  segment and back, due to the reduction in upstream resistance.  To fix it,
  I remember the backward_path_cost back to the start of the routing 
  connection, and never allow a node to be re-expanded if it would make the
  backward_path_cost go down.  Now loops can never occur.


Version 4.15, April 15, 1998

- Added extra info to the timing graph so I can tell what kind of resource
  each timing node is.  This let's me print out and display the critical
  path.  Added code to print out the critical path and graphically display
  it.


Version 4.14, April 9, 1998

- Added the optional keyword "global" to CLB inpin statements in the .arch
  file.  This let's pins used only for global signals (e.g. clocks) be
  flagged as special pins that shouldn't connect into the general purpose
  routing.  This stops muxes, etc. from being built for them, so the area
  numbers are more accurate.  Also, it means they don't disrupt the input
  pin switch pattern -- since input pin switches are evenly distributed
  across the tracks, for low Fc's hooking the clock ipins into the normal
  routing meant some tracks connected to the clock pin and not to any of the
  normal ipins.

  The netlist checker has been beefed up to check that global signals only
  connect to global CLB pins and so on.

- Changed the switch pattern used for CLB input pins when Fc_input = Fc_output.
  The old VPR would make perfectly regular switch patterns, so when Fc_input
  = Fc_output, an output could only talk to certain inputs if Fc was low.
  This would result in an FPGA with very poor routeability (at least if
  the switch box was subset (planar) -- the Wilton switch box would probably
  work OK even with this IPIN switch pattern since it let's every track get
  to every other one).
   
  The change checks for the case Fc_input = Fc_output and perturbs the switch
  pattern for CLB input pins to make it different than the output pin pattern.
  Hence an output can talk to more input pins, and the FPGA is more 
  routable.  The perturbation is as small as I could think to make it, since
  I still wanted the switches nicely distributed over the tracks and logically
  equivalent inputs on the same side should try to hit different tracks.


Version 4.13, March 26, 1998

- Changed the router defaults (acc_fac, first_iter_pres_fac, pres_fac_mult) 
  to the values my experimentation determined were the best (from experiments
  on a buffered, unit-length wire architecture).  Also, the timing-driven 
  router now uses acc_fac = 0 for the first router iteration.

- Changed the area model slightly.  It now assumes that the buffers from tracks
  to ipin_cblocks are 4x minimum width, as are the buffers from the output 
  muxes to logic block input pins.

- Changed rr_graph_timing_params.c so it shares the pull-up, pull-down part
  of tri-state buffer switches in the routing.  This means the input capacitance
  of a buffer is added into a node's capacitance only once at a given (i,j)
  location for that node, since other switches at the same spot using buffers
  will share that buffer.


Version 4.12, Jan. 26, 1998

- Added code to allow several different base cost types; some appropriate
  for area-based routing, some appropriate for timing-driven routing.

- Wrote the timing-driven router.  It uses an A-star directed search algorithm
  and keeps track of the Elmore delay of each node in the partial route
  tree as it constructs it.  Everything is done except the dynamic base cost
  changing net by net.
  
- Split route.c into route_common.c, route_timing.c and route_breadth_first.c.

- Code cleanup.  Removed the net_block_pin_num array and made that data a
  part of the net structure (member blk_pin).  Changed the name of net.pins
  to net.blocks.  Removed the net.tempcost and net.ncost members (since they
  were only used by the placer) and added two static arrays to place.c instead.

- Changed rr_base_cost to a member of the rr_indexed_data structure.  Anything
  that is the same for all segments of a given type can be stored in this 
  structure to save data.  Put various timing values and such for quick 
  computation of expected costs to a target here for use by the timing-driven
  router.

- Changed segment_stats.c to use the length information stored in rr_indexed_
  data, so it doesn't need local static stuff anymore.

- Fixed a minor bug in read_arch.c -- I wasn't setting the loneline parameter
  properly when setting up an FPGA architecture for global routing only. 
  Thanks to Russ Tessier at MIT for finding this.


Version 4.11, Dec. 4, 1997

- Stopped storing the cost of an rr_node in the router, and now store only 
  acc_cost and pres_cost.  This enables dynamic costing of resources by only
  changing the rr_base_cost array.  The cost of a node is then computed as each
  node is expanded during routing.  This slows the router down by 7%.


Version 4.10, Dec. 3, 1997

- Changed the base cost of an rr_node to be looked up through an cost_index.
  Now every wire of a given type (e.g. x-directed, segment type #3) has the 
  same cost_index, so to change the cost of all segments of this type during
  routing you just change rr_base_cost[cost_index].  This will make dynamic
  resource cost changes efficient.

- Deleted the rr_node_cost_inf structure, and moved its members into the
  rr_node (for info needed outside the router) and rr_node_route_inf (for stuff
  needed only within the router).


Version 4.00, Beta #6, Nov. 5, 1997

- Added code to build a timing graph of the circuit and do path analysis.  
  Both the critical path and all the net slacks are determined.

- Split the code that checks the netlist for validity off into a separate 
  module, check_netlist.  Beefed up the error checking so that all the 
  connections between subblocks and clbs and amongst subblocks are checked 
  for errors.

- Changed the net_pin_class data structure to the net_block_pin_num data 
  structure -- it now stores the pin number to which the netlist says each net 
  should connect at a certain block.  For routing I really just have to connect
  to a pin of this *class* on the specified block, but for timing analysis I 
  really need to know the actual pin specified to build the timing graph 
  correctly.  For the places where I want to check the class of what I have
  to connect to, I just have to take clb_pin_class[pnum], where pnum comes from
  this new structure.

- Changed the timing analysis parameters specified in the architecture file
  to make them easier to understand and more flexible.  Each subblock can 
  now have its own delays (different from that of other subblocks).

- Changed the input netlist format slightly so that subblock outputs that 
  are routed within a subblock to the inputs of other subblocks don't have 
  to connect to any clb output pin.


Version 4.00, Beta #5, Sept. 19, 1997:

- Made an Elmore-delay based net delay calculator (in net_delay.c).

- Restructured routing_stats (in stats.c) slightly to make the control routine
  simpler.

- Sept. 19, 1997:  Incorporated Zoom Fit code of Haneef Mohammed at Cypress.  
  Makes it easy to zoom to a full view of the graphics. 


Version 4.00, Beta #4, Sept. 12, 1997:

- Added a Congestion button to the graphics display.  It shows all the 
  overused routing resources in red.  This required some changes to 
  graphics.c to allow buttons to be created and deleted on the fly.

- Made the coordinates (e.g, 4,3) of the block you click on appear in the
  text area of the graphics display.  Requested by Jordan and Yaska.


Version 4.00, Beta #3, August 28, 1997:

- Added code to make VPR suitable as a CPU benchmark for the SPEC consortium.
  Add the line -DSPEC in the makefile to turn on the SPEC code.  Normal 
  users of VPR should never define SPEC, so you can ignore all the code
  after an #ifdef SPEC line.

  The SPEC specific stuff doesn't do much -- it just rips out the
  graphics and makes sure different roundoff behaviour on different
  machines doesn't lead to different routings.

- Added a "NO_GRAPHICS" define.  If you define NO_GRAPHICS in pr.h, all the 
  X11 code is ripped out allowing VPR to be compiled on machines without X11 
  graphics.

- Wrote my own random number generation routine, based on rand.  It's tuned
  for speed, not spectral quality.  This lets me get rid of the ARCH_TYPE
  flag, and makes the code more portable across architectures.

- Added a segment usage statistics routine.  This routine needs to know
  what the type and length of each track of an FPGA is.  The rr_graph
  builder saves that information once it has built the graph.  If you don't
  want to generate this extra information (because you're building your
  own graph), just don't call the segment usage routine after routing.

- Moved around some of the rr_graph data elements.  rr_node_draw_inf is 
  now gone -- .type and .ptc_num are now part of rr_node.  rr_node gives all
  the physical information about a node except its capacity (which is still
  in rr_node_cost_inf).  I also moved .prev_node, .prev_edge, .cost, 
  .target_flag, and .path_cost to a new structure, rr_node_route_inf.  This
  structure is local to the router, and is allocated, initialized and freed
  by the router, so you don't have to worry about it.  Just load up 
  rr_node and rr_node_cost_inf in the rr_graph.c routines.

- Added a transistor based area model.  It goes through the rr_graph and
  figures out how many minimum width transistor areas are needed to build the
  FPGA routing.

- Changed rr_graph generator so that pass transistors always create two edges 
  in the graph.  This makes the area model etc. a lot easier.


Version 4.00, Beta #2, July 15, 1997:

- Changed rr_graph so that IO pads now have all the switches necessary to
  be both an input pad and an output pad built.  The EMPTY_PAD rr_type has
  been eliminated.  This change doesn't make any difference to the router,
  but it will give more accurate transistor counts.

- Changed the rr_graph to allow each switch coming off a node to be a 
  different type.  Changed the architecture definition file format so that
  each .segment line specifies the type of switch used by a wire to drive 
  that segment, and the type of switch used by an output pin to drive that
  segment.


Version 4.00, Beta #1, July 3, 1997:

- Removed router limitation that it couldn't route more than 1 pin of a net
  to the same sink (same pin class on a logic block).  For the LUT-based
  logic blocks I look at there should never be more than one pin from a net
  to any sink, but for other logic blocks this could occur.  I still warn
  the user about this though, since most logic blocks shouldn't have this
  feature.  I sped up the check for multiple connections to a sink (in
  read_netlist) as well.

- Added ability to graphically see which switches are buffers and which are
  pass transistors.

- Added some of the hooks for timing analysis (capacitance loader, timing
  parameter parser, etc.)

- Added routing graph sanity checker.

- Added segmentated architecture for routing.

- Fixed the read_netlist bug where the parser would complain if a subblock
  line started with white space (noticed by Kevin Skahill at Cypress).

Version 3.99a

- Added -fast option, and -route_chan_width option.  -route_chan_width
  option allows only one routing to be done, rather than a binary search.

- Fixed fact that bounding box clipping of the routing region was too
  aggressive (noticed by Russ Tessier).

Version 3.99

- Added D. F. Wong's Universal switch block as one of the switch blocks
  supported.

- Code cleanup.  Put the placer options in a placer_opts structure, and 
  moved the input and output code from place.c to read_place.c.

- Added the ability to read in the location of the IO pads and force the
  placer to keep them there.

- Changed the placement output format slightly.  Block numbers are now
  only in comments.  The placement input parser was completely rewritten.
  Comments and line continuation are now allowed in placement files.  More
  importantly, the order of the blocks is now irrelevant; the file can list
  the blocks in any order.  This should be a lot more convenient for people
  using VPR to route placements generated by other tools.  The error 
  checking has been beefed up too -- I think every possible error in a 
  placement file will be caught now and the user will get an informative
  error message.  In particular, the "non-consecutive subblock" error that
  tripped up Russ and Ivan will be caught right away.

- Moved all hash table logic out of read_netlist.c and into a new module,
  hash.c.  I can use this general hash table stuff all over now.

- Changed defaults to be 30 routing iterations and detailed routing.

- Changed VPR to use a graph-based model of the routing resources available.
  This allows VPR to perform either global or detailed routing now.  Also
  added new graphics options to view the routing resources available.
  Took the routing checker out of route.c and put it in check_route.c.
  Also moved some code from route.c to stats.c.

- Converted some defined constants to enumerated types so I can see the
  symbolic names in gdb.

- Cleaned up some of the placer code.  Centralized allocation of the temporary
  placement data structures.  Changed the standard deviation computation
  so that the old_costs array wasn't needed anymore.

Version 3.98a

- Made a minor change to the graphics package.  Descenders (e.g. "g")
  are now considered in the vertical text centering routines.

- Changed the placer inner loop so that the frequency with which recompute
  cost is called is variable.  Recomputing the cost from time to time
  from scratch stops round offs from accumulating.  The change didn't make
  VPR significantly faster.

- Made -inner_num a float to allow small inner nums to be tried.

- Code cleanup.  Converted the annealing schedule parameters from 
  global variables to a structure that is passed around.  Converted the
  graphics state from global variables to static variables in draw.c set
  via a call to set_graphics_state.

- Added -verify_binary_search option.  Makes the router try routings
  with channel widths of best-2 and best-3 (in addition to the best-1
  tried by the binary search).  If one of these additional routings
  succeeds, the router keeps trying routings until two in a row (e.g.
  width = 9 and width = 8) fail.  The binary search usually finds the
  min. channel width, but due to router flukiness it will occassionally
  happen that a width = 19 routing fails, but width = 18 succeeds and
  so on.
 
Version 3.98

- Changed initial routing channel width guess to clb_size (# of pins
  on a clb).  Should give slightly faster run times for big clbs.

- Fixed a bug where VPR would wrongly think it had an error and 
  terminate itself if two outputs were made logically equivalent.
  Bug noticed by George Varghese of UC Berkeley.

- Altered VPR to use the new netlist format of blifmap (cluster-based).
  In this process I fixed a minor netlist parsing bug where VPR would
  refuse to accept a netlist with a comment between a .clb and a .pinlist
  line.  The new information on what's in a cluster is in the .subblock
  lines following each .clb line (after the .pinlist line).

Version 3.23

NB:  May want to add check in read_place for subblock numbers that have
  gaps (not consecutive starting at zero).  Russ Tessier's suggestion.
  (I did this on March 22, 1997 -- Version 3.99).

- Updated graphics again -- made all internal functions static so that
  graphics.c is a true component without name space conflicts with user
  programs.  Also moved the toggle_nets function to draw.c, as this 
  cleaned up the code dependencies a bit.

- Corrected RISA reference in the source code to point to ICCAD (pointed
  out by Russ Tessier of MIT).

- Rewrote large parts of graphics package.  It should now be faster for
  zoomed in graphics, as it preclips them based on their bounding box. 
  This will also make zoomed-in postscript much smaller.  The PostScript
  driver has been rewritten; output file sizes are about 50% smaller now
  if all graphics are on-screen.  When zoomed-in the clipping makes an
  even bigger difference.  Also added the ability to specify the font size
  for text and the line width for geometry (I demand-load the fonts
  for maximum efficiency while hiding details like font loading from the
  calling program).  Finally, I removed the global drawscreen function
  and replaced it with a callback function to clean up the code a bit.
  

Version 3.22

- Changed some code in util.c that HP's C compiler didn't like. 
  Turned on all warning options in gcc and fixed all warnings, 
  unused variables, etc.  Also slightly altered the header structure
  of the program to better check function definitions against 
  function declarations in util.c and graphics.c.  Someday I should
  make all local functions static and put declarations for all functions
  called across modules in header files.  Added an ARCH_TYPE flag
  to the makefile so that machine dependent code (random number 
  generator right now) is altered merely by changing the makefile.
  This version should now work fine on both SUN and HP.

- Fixed a minor error message bug Guy found.

- When there is only 1 location for a clb (nx = ny = 1, with 1 clb) 
  the placer goes into an infinite loop trying to move the block.
  Added a check for this so it now just refuses to place the circuit.

- Added an option to specify FPGA size (-nx and -ny) on the command line
  for Guy.  ny can now be bigger than nx, so I had to change a couple
  of things in the range limiter routines.

- Added -aspect_ratio option to allow simulation of nonsquare FPGAs.
  Cleaned up a few bits of ugly code I found while checking that I always
  used nx and ny properly.  Had to change the range limiter routine to
  make nonsquare FPGAs work properly.

Version 3.21

- Added delta channel width description function.  Makes only one channel
  extra wide (or narrow).

- Changed channel width code so that io channel widths are no longer 
  tied to the maximum channel width in the rest of the array.

- Added -fixed_pins option to lock the pins in their initial random
  positions.

Version 3.20

- Added nonlinear congestion option to the placer.  Can either replace
  the circuit for every channel width or just place once to a suggested
  width.

- Changed the router so that it only resets the pathcost element of 
  channel segments that were reached in the last routing phase.  This only
  sped up the router by 5% -- rather disappointing.

- Added code to recompute the cost (quickly) after each placement temp.
  is finished so the check_cost checks won't fail due to round off
  accumulation.


Version 3.13

- Fixed bug in netlist parser that went into an infinite loop if a global
  net was not the first item in it's hash table entry.

- Added -place_cost_exp option to set the exponent to which we take the
  average number of tracks per channel factor in the cost function.  Setting
  this option to be greater than 1 allows more sever penalization of narrow
  channels during placement.

- Made Pathfinder algorithm with init_pres_fac = 0.5 and acc_fac_mult
  = 0.2 the default for the router.  Gives about 9% better results than 
  the old router options.

- Changed the -pin_block_update_type option to -block_update_type and
  allowed it to take a value of "pathfinder".  This invokes a true
  Pathfinder algorithm, where some costs are updated immediately and
  others are updated after all nets are routed.  This Pathfinder 
  algorithm is new this version.

- Fixed a minor bug in the placer cost function that led to incorrect
  bounding boxes (and hence costs) of nets that had more than one pin
  connected to the same block.  The initial bounding box set up
  overcounted the number of blocks on the bb edges.  This bug caused
  an error message in Mike's big run of vpr on all mcnc circuits.


Version 3.12

- Added a new option, -pin_block_update_type, to allow selection of a
  mixed Pathfinder, immediate-update algorithm where pin costs are updated
  immediately and channel costs are updated in the Pathfinder manner.

- Now computes and prints out routed wirelength statistics (requested by 
  Mike). 

- Fixed a minor bug in the routine that counted the number of bends in
  the routed circuit.  The bug counted an extra bend in rare cases 
  (specifically when wires came out of an OPIN into more than one channel),
  causing the bend numbers to be about 1% higher than they should have 
  been.
  

Version 3.11

- Added a few more routing options.  Set a couple of defaults to what
  I've determined to be better values.  I compute statistics on how
  many bends there are per net.  This version is going to Jonathan.


Version 3.10

- Changed the bounding box update method so that large nets have their
  bounding boxes incrementally updated whenever possible.  This has
  sped up the bounding box calculation for bigkey_mod by a 
  factor of about 34.  For other netlists with fewer high fanout nets
  the improvement is smaller, but still significant.

- Changed the cost function calculation so that as much data as possible
  is precomputed.  This and the bounding box change together speed 
  up placement of small circuits (e64) by 2x, and large circuits (alu4)
  by 15x.

- Added more options to allow more control over the router.


Code maintenance changes:

  Restructured the options parser to make it more modular.  Added checks
  to determine that the parameters supplied for each option are of the
  correct (integer, float or string) type.

 
Version 3.02

- Changed the cost function's for the router.  Pins that are not 
  oversubscribed now have a cost of 0., not 1.  The costs of all pins
  should be 1 less than in version 3.01.  Channels are penalized for
  overuse via formulae like cost = 1. + (chan_occ - chan_width) * fac
  rather than the old cost = 1. + (chan_occ / chan_width - 1.) * fac.
  This new cost penalizes absolute rather than relative overuse, and
  should be faster to compute and lead to larger penalties (regardless
  of channel width) with smaller penalty factors, fac.  It's magnitude
  should be more in line with that of the pin overuse cost.

  The one drawback is that the relative overuse cost considered using
  11 tracks in a 10 track channel to be less severe than using 2 tracks
  in a 1 track channel, which is probably the way it should be.


Version 3.01

- Allocated small chunks of memory with calls to my_small_malloc instead
  of my_malloc.  My_small_malloc is my custom memory handler that 
  avoids the 8-byte or so storage overhead of malloc, at the cost of not
  keeping enough information to free the data structures.

- Removed the temporary code from the routing serial number generator, 
  routing print routine, and channel cost and occupancy dumping routine
  that allowed direct comparison with Version 2.22a's results.  All 
  information is now printed with the true (new) pin numbering scheme.

- Removed temporary code that set CLB's opin cost to 0.  Now it is 1;
  it shouldn't make much difference.


Version 3.00

This version evolved from Version 2.22, not 2.22a.  The changes are:

- Input netlist format changed from blif to that produced by blifmap (.net).

- Architecture description file is changed to allow the definition of more
  arbitrary clbs, with general classes of logically equivalent pins.

- The entire program has been altered to place and route general clbs rather
  than just LUTs with one output.

- The program allows global nets to be flagged via .global statements in the
  input netlist file.  These nets are ignored in all subsequent place and 
  route steps by the program, but the blocks they must connect are listed
  in the final routing output.

- The routing output now goes to a file, which is specified on the command
  line.

- Added two new command line options -route_only and -place_only.  If 
  -route_only is specified, an existing placement is read in from the
  place_file and is routed.  If -place_only is specified, the program
  quits after writing out the final placement of a circuit (no routing is
  done).


Bug Fixes and minor alterations:

- Changed the chan_y.occ vs. chan_width_y check in check_routing.  It 
  had the wrong subscript (this would have been bad!).

- Changed the placement output file to include subblock information for IOs.

- Increased the input buffer size for all parsers and added a check for 
  lines so long that they overflow the input buffer (motivated by J.P.).

- Changed binary search for minimum necessary track width so that tiny 
  circuits that succeed with a width_factor of 0 are properly handled 
  (motivated by J.P.).

- Fixed minor mistake drawing to the OPINs of IO blocks.

- Partially fixed the inaccurate drawing problem caused by X Windows' 
  apparent inability to handle coordinates outside the range -15000 to 
  15000.  I clip point by point to the -15000 to 15000 range.  This means
  drawrect, fillrect and drawtext will always work properly.  Drawline
  (fillpoly) will always work for horizontal or vertical lines (polygon edges)
  but will be incorrect for extremely zoomed diagonal ones.  Drawarc will
  also be incorrect at extreme zooms.  The PostScript output always looks
  correct.  The only complete fix for this problem is for me to write my
  own clipping routines.  This is a lot of code, and will hurt performance
  since I'll be duplicating X Windows' own checks.  I don't think it's 
  worthwhile to overcome a problem that only shows up when people zoom
  in on the graphics absurdly (like a bored Steve, who found the inaccurate
  drawing).

- Routing serial number generator now only considers the pin numbers of 
  traceback segments that are of type OPIN or IPIN.


Version 2.22a

Made some minor changes to Version 2.22 to allow this program's output to
be compared to that of Version 3.0 in order to be sure the programs work
the same way.  Fixed a nasty bug in check_routing where the chan_width_y
not exceeded check was incorrect.  Changed the serial number generation
to avoid taking the pin numbers of things that were not IPINS or OPINs.

Version 2.22

Same as version 2.21 with a few changes to make util.c and util.h a bit
more modular.


Version 2.21

Updated the router graphics, and fixed the unsaved routing bug, and
the improper abort sequence when the PostScript file can't be opened.
This version is fully functional, but can handle only clbs with 1 LUT
in them.


Version 2.20

This version correctly routes nets and updates the cost functions.  It
is a complete place and route tool.  The router graphics have now been
implemented, and all graphics allow a text message and selection of clbs. 


